---
layout: post
title:  "Real-Time Text-to-Image synthesis with LCM-LoRA"
summary: "Providing a real-time text-to-image synthesis service using Flask"
author: Junseo Park
contributors: "Junseo Park"
date: '2024-03-01 14:35:23 +0530'
category: project
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/realtime_demo.gif
keywords: diffusion model, LCM-LoRA, ChatGPT, text-to-image synthesis, real-time
permalink: /blog/realtime/
usemathjax: true
github_link: "https://github.com/qkrwnstj306/Text-to-Image-Toy-ProjectA"
image: "/assets/img/posts/realtime_demo.gif"
---
<div align="center" style="
  font-family: 'Times New Roman', Times, serif;
  font-size: 20px;
  font-weight: bold;
  color: #4a4a4a;
  padding: 20px;
  margin: 20px auto;
  border: 2px solid #e0e0e0;
  border-radius: 10px;
  background: linear-gradient(120deg, #f0f8ff, #ffffff);
  box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);">
  🚀 "Provides text-to-image synthesis in real-time <br> through LCM-LoRA" 🌟
</div>

  
<p></p>


### Context

- The Latent Diffusion Model (LDM) has brought innovation to reliable image generation. Nevertheless, the inherently slow sampling process of diffusion models hinders real-time generation, negatively impacting user experience.
- Efforts to accelerate LDM generally fall into two categories:
  1. Utilizing advanced ODE solvers such as DDIM and DPMSolver, which drastically reduce the $1,000$ time steps of DDPM.
  2. Distilling LDM.

### Problem

- The slow generation speed of traditional LDMs makes it challenging to satisfy user experience.
- Deploying a site to test user satisfaction requires significant time and resources.

### Proposed Method

- Introducing LCM-LoRA into LDM ([SDXL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01952)) to enable near real-time image synthesis:
  - The recently introduced Latent [Consistency Model (LCM)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.04378), inspired by the [Consistency Model (CM)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.01469), allows for the application of CM in latent space.
    - It can create an origin from any point on the ODE path.
    - This enables efficient synthesis of high-resolution images with as few as $1$ to $4$ time steps.
  - LCM-LoRA acts as an adapter that can be attached to existing LDMs, reducing training costs.
- Building a website using Flask and ChatGPT.


### Result

- As demonstrated in the demo video on [Github](https://github.com/qkrwnstj306/Text-to-Image-Toy-Project/), the model generates images in response to user text input in near real-time.
- Although not perfectly real-time due to communication delays between the server and user and the time required to save images, the experience is significantly faster and more satisfying than before.
  - Feedback was collected from acquaintances to evaluate user satisfaction.